## Data to Knowledge

In a typical day what trail of data do we leave?

Active data trail - Data collected that we know that is being shared:

- Sending messages, emails
- Uploading videos and photos
- Payment, buying items at shops either physically or digitally
- Signing up to forums and social media
- Signing up to any digital news-letter / service

Passive data trail - Data collected that we don't know is being shared:

- Search history, cookies
- Location tracking (Wifi)
- Device information (IP address)
- Devices, sensors (biometric information) and CCTV


DATA - Raw facts and figures, unorganized, which have no context or meaning (makes no sense).
INFORMATION - Data that has been processed, organized and has a context/meaning (makes sense).
KNOWLEDGE - Using information paired with rules, experience or understanding to make informed decisions or "connect the dots" (conclusion).


How do organizations use data?

- Targeted advertising (Targets specific group of people, tradesmen would get hardware equipment ads)
- Personalized marketing (Targets a individual, through past behaviour and purchases)
- Product development (Improving a product can be hardware, software or bugs)
- Improve user experience (Understanding what users do like and dislike about the product/service)


Data wrangling:

- Group process of cleaning and organizing unstructured data into a usable format that enhances its suitability for analysis

Insists of 6 steps:

- Discovery 

Understanding the data you have, what you need and what to do with (finding patterns, data that you don't need).

- Structuring 

Giving data structure so it's easier to understand and navigate through it (finding valid and non-valid information).

- Cleaning

Applying althogrims to look for errors and removing them (removing empty cells or rows, making corrections and removing duplicates).

- Enriching

Deciding if you need more data or not for project (adding values from other databases, but repeating processes above)

- Validation

Ensuring that the quality of final data is accurate, by fixing and improving on:
Quality, consistency, accuracy, security, authenticity of the data

- Publishing

Publishing wrangled data being available for other companies to be used for their purposes.