## All pictures provided are in Screenshots/



Picture 1 I found birth rate interesting, so I decided to start off with this column.
I used the sort & filter option on excel to sort the column into lowest -> highest.
Picture 2 is the result of sorting lowest to highest but alone this column makes no sense.
Picture 3 is what caught my attention and decided to use this column "Life expectancy" as the comparision.
Picture 4 is having the column "birth rate" and "life expectancy" being compared, as I noticed that a lower birth rate leads to a higher life expectancy. Does this mean that countries with a lower birth rate leads to longer life expectancy? No, this alone does not connect the dots between these two statistics. This is known as correlation, this doesn't mean that lower birth rate leads to a longer life expectancy as many other factories can play a role within them such as:

- If country is wealthier or not ---> leads to better healthcare ---> longer life expectancy
- Education, if women are having more children, then there will be a higher birth rate.

So the conclusion I came to is that birth rate and life expectancy have no relation between them.

Picture 5 is what is a connection. In this picture, the first column are countries in within Africa, the second column which we used previously is the birth rate. Finally, the third column is fertility rate (how many children per women). With the comparison and the link between these three columns I came to a conclusion that in African countries, women aren't in education, which insists they are more likely to have children.We can link this to the high levels of birth rate (which I sorted as highest to lowest) and fertility rate having a relation between each other.